---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Performing WODs Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-02-15
labels:
  - WODs
  - HTML
  - CSS
  - Invoice
  - Web Design
---
**Provide a brief introduction to the WOD along with a link to this page for further details**

This WOD is labeled as Invoice1, and here is the link to the WOD page with the instructions: https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-preparing-for-WOD.html. This WOD required us to create a sales receipt to print the subtotal calculations of five objects to represent items on an invoice. The calculations to print the number were completed using javascript so that the estimates and the page were dynamic versus being hardcoded. Finally, we had to create an HTML table to display the javascript that we created earlier to appear as numbers in the table.

**Discuss your experiences in performing the WOD. What worked well, what did you stumble on or slowed you down?**

My experience in performing the WOD was relatively straightforward, so I didn’t have too much trouble. What worked well was that everything that we coded in javascript had single-line comments that helped keep everything well organized. It also helped to duplicate the first code for the product and then change it for each product, as this made going through the WOD much faster. Something that I stumbled on was remembering to use the  ${} syntax and placing “.toFixed(2)” to only reflect two decimal places for the price amounts and tax.

**Describe what you to did to prepare. What did you do similarly or differently from the WOD before this?**

To prepare for this WOD, I completed all the readings that were assigned to this module. Then I attempted the WOD one time, just trying to do as much as possible based on what I knew without worrying about my time. Even if I got stuck on some things, I would try to move on and note to fix them later or watch the screencast. After my first attempt, I watched the screencast to compare my process to the Professor and then completed it one more time alongside the screencast. I reviewed what I had done for the second attempt and made sure I understood any mistakes from my first attempt. Finally, I made my 3rd and final attempt, which is the one that I recorded. There was nothing that I did differently from the WOD before this to prepare for this WOD as it was pretty similar to the other WODS in terms of the process.

**Discuss what you could have done to be better prepared and what you might try differently for the next WOD.**

To prepare better for the next WOD, I should be more confident and familiar with the syntax before starting. Furthermore, getting more practice with coding will help me remember all the different tags in HTML. Also, next time, I want to be even faster and more efficient by possibly cutting out the third attempt. After the first attempt and watching the screencast, I want to complete the WOD in one more go simply by looking at the directions more carefully.
