---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E4 Progress in Programming Report
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-04-15
labels:
  - Assignment 1
  - HTML
  - CSS
  - Servers
  - Web Design
---
#### 1. My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:
My programming skills have greatly improved as now I am a lot more confident in understanding how HTML and CSS can work in conjunction with JavaScript. Also, I have started to have a better understanding of how servers work by responding to different requests from the client. Furthermore, something that drastically improved my programming skills was learning to note and explain everything so that I can remember exactly each code’s function and purpose. 

#### 2. I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:
I need to work on the process of redirecting pages and inputting data. Furthermore, as I am still very new to how servers work, I want to understand that concept a bit better. Also, something I want to experiment more with is using CSS so that my websites can look visually appealing. A big point that I want to work on to improve my programming skills is time management in my life. From a practical point of view, I recognize that I should be dedicating more time to understanding these programming concepts and practicing with them to improve my skills. I feel that there are a lot of things going on in my life right now so I am not allocating the proper amount of time toward my programming practice.

#### 3. I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:
The WODs have provided me with a unique option to practice additional examples that we learned from the labs. As we typically complete the WODs after the labs, I feel that they are challenging enough but obviously not impossible because I have an idea of what is required but still need to figure some things out. Also, I enjoyed how the WODs would build on top of each other in such a way that they gradually introduced new concepts. I believe that I can do most of them without copying the screencast but I might need to either review the screencast or my past code to understand what I did before.

#### 4. The labs have helped me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence: 
The labs can be pretty advanced sometimes especially when it comes to the later exercise in each lab. However, they do help me learn as I am able to see how the concepts work in a live example rather than just reading about the concepts. I learned best when I was able to follow along in the class because people can ask questions when they get lost. I think I am able to complete most of them with confidence but there are somewhere I might still be a little confused about and will probably not grasp everything right away.

#### 5. I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:
I have learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 but I am not sure that I am ready to work on Assignment 2. A lot of what I did for Assignment 1 was put together code from past labs and other examples and Frankenstein it together into something somewhat functional. I feel that my code may not be that good in terms of being able to modify it so I might end up starting from scratch again. Also, as the deadline is approaching, I have other assignments and exams from other classes and the tax deadline for my tax internship is coming up so I don’t feel ready in terms of possibly having the proper amount of time available. 

#### 6. I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:
I think the class can be improved to help my learning by potentially spacing assignment 1 into smaller chunks or having smaller assignments come before that assignment. I understand that the in-class labs are meant to teach or help you understand certain parts of the 1st assignment but it can be quite difficult to put all of it together at the end in a cohesive manner that is functional. Furthermore, this is especially true when it comes to the server portion of assignment 1 as that is not something we learn about until assignment 1 is close to being due. Finally, sometimes having to complete certain parts of the lab can be confusing as I might be able to follow the instructions but answering the questions to explain why or what happened can be confusing so perhaps getting explanations on the parts that couldn’t be covered in class would be nice.

#### 7. What helps me the most in class are:
What helps me most in class are the labs that we do alongside the screencasts that are recorded through zoom. Having a chance to watch the screencasts is extremely helpful as it allows me to go back and review things that might have been missed in class that I couldn’t keep up with or listen to how the professor explained certain concepts. Also, the WODs are very helpful in this class as they basically offer extra practice for the concepts that were learned in class. Finally, I am able to talk to classmates which can help as sometimes they are easier to communicate with than the Professor. Working in a class with classmates that are open to helping each other is a great environment that has contributed to my learning experience.
